now after destroying as much as 80% of
the buildings in Northern Gaza Israel's
military is now focusing on the
territory South Ground Forces backed by
tanks are carrying out operations in the
area of Kan Yunis weeks of bombing and
heavy combat have left much of the city
in Ruins forcing tens of thousands of
Palestinians to flee further south to
the Egyptian
border um amama and her family of 20 are
in search of safety
they were forced to flee from a uin
shelter in Han yunus after Israeli
bombings
intensified now this is their home near
the city of Rafa close to the border
with
Egypt we've been suffering a lot here
there's no food or drink all the food we
prepare we give to the children for us
old people it's not important to eat or
drink
everyone's situation here is difficult
we live in great
suffering there's no drinking water
there's no help not even the most basic
elements of ordinary
life amid ongoing clashes with Hamas
Israel escalated its bombing of
hunus over
43,000 displaced people have been forced
to move South towards
Rafa we were sleeping peacefully when
suddenly there were clashes and shells
started falling on us we couldn't sleep
all night I don't understand the reason
for this
Behavior the UN estimates around 85% of
gaza's population has been displaced by
the
war many amilies have been forced to
move multiple
times we hope that the war will end
peacefully and that we'll be able to
live a safe normal life with our
children because our children don't live
in safety at the
moment we hope to return home as soon as
possible and live a life like everyone
else and like the rest of the
world our situation and that of our
children is very
bad
Umama and thousands of Palestinians in
Gaza hope that they can return home one
day for now though home is this
makeshift tent on the gazen
border now people caught in the
crossfire of the Hamas Israel war in
Gaza have experienced extreme violence
and destruction ever since the October
7th Hamas Terror attacks one woman who
escaped the fighting with her five
children and moved to uh Johannesburg in
South Africa has been sharing her story
with DW a heartfelt message comes with a
plea for a ceasefire in the region so I
I really think that we are fortunate
that we actually got out it's a miracle
from God yeah because we saw a lot of
things that we were not supposed to
see zakira cha is able to reflect on her
life in Gaza from the safety of her home
in Johannesburg she returned to South
Africa in December after escaping with
her
children she shows us the area that was
once her home destroyed by bombing
Logistics of where the vibration of the
sound of the mes as it hit the ground it
cracked every part of the entire um all
of the windows that was within the
building it cracked and it came like
like spikes around you so if you were in
the wrong position it you would be like
um really really badly hurt Chia spent
more than 25 years years living in Gaza
she married a Palestinian man raised a
family and built a life there teaching
English and doing humanitarian
work but that life came to an abrupt end
when Israel launched its war against
Hamas in Gaza following their Terror
attacks on October
7th we saw how the buildings were
collapsing in front of our eyes and as
they were bombing they were targeting an
area like 3 minutes from our home and as
the kids and I watch from our balcony we
said we can't it's really in it's really
coming close to us this is not something
that we can play with our lives so we
went into a primary school that we
stayed for a week um difficult
circumstances sleeping on the floor
highly densely populated and everybody
was screaming and in in a lot of Terror
and rage that was when she realized they
had to leave she turned to the South
African Embassy for
help the family traveled to Rafa on the
border with Egypt
they waited for over a month before
being allowed out of
Gaza when I passed the border and we got
through that stage I said okay this is
really understanding and having faith in
God because you're going into unknown
stuff and you putting yourself into
unknown situations and you have the
higher power of faith in God that was my
key I think but she can't help worry
about those Left Behind including her
ex-husband
I hope that he can come out because uh
he trusted me to come with the children
here to be safe but I don't know who's
going to be alive of their family cha
and her five children are now rebuilding
their lives here but she still thinks
about the people in
Gaza they really need people that can
really do their part in getting them a
ceasefire that can hold they need peace
in their lives they tired of War they
didn't ask um to be put in a situation
where everything is taken away from
them